---
layout: page
title: About Us
permalink: /about
---

The Cornell University Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (CUAUV) team designs and
builds AUVs for competition and research. The team and its vehicle have received
acclaim and support from industry professionals as a result of its performance
and long-standing tradition of excellence.

# The Team

CUAUV designs, builds, programs and tests a completely new autonomous submarine
every year to compete in AUVSI’s international RoboSub competition. In August,
we ship our sub down to San Diego, drop it in a recomissioned Navy testing pool,
press the green button, and cheer it on as it navigates a complicated underwater
obstacle course with no human intervention whatsoever: ramming buoys, dropping
weighted darts on Space Invader-shaped objects, firing torpedoes through
differently colored targets, re-positioning PVC structures and more.

CUAUV is entirely undergraduate-run, consisting of over 40 students spanning
numerous academic disciplines. The team offers a holistic engineering experience
developing cutting-edge technology; students control the entire design,
manufacturing, testing and revision cycle. As a six-time RoboSub champion, CUAUV
embodies a tradition of excellence and continuously pushes the envelope of
autonomous underwater vehicle technology.

# Spring 2016

[[photo]]

## 1999
Founded

## 51
Team Members

## 10
Majors

## 7
AUVSI Champions

## 4
subteams

## 2
Vehicles in Development

# Subteams
## Software Subteam

{:.contact}
Contact: John Macdonald

The software subteam writes all of the code that executes on the submarine's
main computer and any additional infrastructure and tooling. They also build
auxiliary software such as simulation, visualization, and automation tools that
enable us to efficiently develop mission systems that accomplish the requisite
task.

### TEAM MEMBERS

## Mechanical Subteam

{:.contact}
Contact: Sanika Kulkarni

The mechanical team is comprised of 10 undergraduate students across three
subteams, the Actuators, Racks Caps and Cameras, and Structures subteam. Over
the course of the year, the vehicle is designed in Solidworks, simulated in
ANSYS, manufactured in house at the Cornell Emerson Machine shop, integrated and
tested in Teagle pool, and finally taken apart and shipped to San Diego for
competition.

### TEAM MEMBERS

## Electrical Subteam

{:.contact}
Contact: Nick Sarkis

The electrical team designs, populates, and tests circuit boards which provide
power to the onboard electronics, interface with the various sensors, including
a custom acoustic sensing system, and control the vehicle's actuators and
thrusters.

### TEAM MEMBERS

## Business Subteam

{:.contact}
Contact: Artina Maloki

The business and public relations subteam is responsible for all business
development as well as marketing and communications for the CUAUV engineering
project team. The subteam publishes journal papers and newsletters, designs the
official CUAUV website, and plans community outreach events. The subteam also
manages the team’s finances and builds strong partnerships with sponsors.

### TEAM MEMBERS
